# CD Task Group Remote Meeting 14/11/2018

## Agenda

1. Review and agree the project plan
    - Feedback and adjustments to tasks, dependencies and timelines

2. Assign task leaders and participants
    - (Co-)leads for each subtask
    - Any additional participants

3. Discuss how to handle task tracking and outputs
    - Tracking tasks (Github issues? Other web platform e.g. Trello?)
    - Working documents (Google docs?)
    - Formal outputs (Github documents, Wiki?)

4. AOB

## Meeting notes

* No significant additions or modifications to the tasks
* GBIF / GRBIO don’t have any particular dependencies on the TG's timeline, but will pick up the recommendations when they come out
* Niels Raes noted that, from an ICEDIG / DiSSCo perspective, the timeline was too long and would he would hope for earlier output. The general opinion of the group was that the data model and data standards tasks could be substantially compressed, with potential to get some more dedicated time by aligning with SYNTHESYS+ and use MOBILISE funds to get people together for more intensive work towards the middle of next year. Donald Hobern offered to raise this during the conversations in Bratislava later in the week and report back.
* Donald recommended contacting Tim Robertson at GBIF to see if he’s interested in being involved in the data model task.
* There was general agreement that the group's agreed scope needs to be clearly articulated and documented. 
* In response to the request for task leads and co-leaders, Niels Raes volunteered for the 'Collections descriptions frameworks crosswalk' and 'Identify breakdown dimensions' tasks, as there is substantial crossover with the work of the ICEDIG Collections Dashboards group.
* General agreement that a GitHub-centric model for managing the project and outputs would be sensible, rather than breaking with established practice. There’s also potential for using some of GitHub’s newer project management functions.
* The general consensus for working documents was not to be prescriptive about the platform (Google docs, Office 365 etc), but rather focus on good practice and discoverability.
