# CD TG Data Model Group Remote Meeting (Round 1) 24/04/2019 14:00 UTC


## Present at meeting

Matt Woodburn, Stan Blum, Jim Beach, Kate Webbink, Janeen Jones, Sharon Grant, Andrea Hahn, Quentin Groom, Deb Paul

## Agenda

1. Use case review strategies
2. Update on data modelling task
3. Wikibase for building and testing models
4. AOB

## Meeting notes

### Agenda item 1

* DP: Looking at templates, looking at simple model rather than RDA. Trying to break down use cases by end of May (David Bloom, Niels Raes, Deb Paul)
* SB - agrees on template, RDA more complex than needed
* SG: has had a go at adding dimensions and elements
* QG: added use case to github issues, can work up
* DP: to create form to put up so others can see
* PIDs / use case registry to keep track, also for duplication

### Agenda item 2

* Data model discussion document: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KPOJM0WnZGyXCP--k-IKHiPpXIBZNHV6Ifob9DuuG3g/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KPOJM0WnZGyXCP--k-IKHiPpXIBZNHV6Ifob9DuuG3g/edit?usp=sharing) 
* MW met with SG, KW and JJ (Field Museum) and David Bloom (VertNet) to discuss the model and the Field Museum’s use case and spec for grouped collections
* General meeting of the data model task group held on 18/04/2019
* Outlined a “dimensional approach” for discussion

**Reviewing the V1.0 Data model:**

* SB: asking question about which metric values will be additive to produce an accurate sum estimates. We don’t want to double count estimated items in different dimensions.
* MW: Dimensional model - adds flexibility, but trade-off can be data management overhead, However if ubiquitous hierarchy is used across use cases for collections, then simplifies some of the data management issues.
* JB: dimensions or hierarchical, hard to weigh
* MW: b/c it’s in the practicalities of implementation where we figure out issues. Use case review will help inform.
* SB: example taxonomic dimension (common to all). Say you count the “blocks” for a taxonomic group but you have an Arctic Expedition Collection - how do you count? Will be confusing - result in potential double-counting?
* FM: SG/KW: Some sort of BasisOfRecord units, count / compare by those
* MW: need at NHM to be able to re-frame the data in different ways.
* SB: could tag records with key values for certain counts (sums) - so called “markers” that are definitive numbers that can be used for quantitative methods
* SB: Institutional Dimension of key importance. Authority file needs for “institution”
* DP: Look back at the reasons why previous standards didn’t get adopted
* JB: notes that collections/institutions can reflect legal groups, historical groupings, …
* KW and JJ: set required fields, defined well.
* Gary Rosenberg is working on standards for metrics/counts for invertebrates
* JB: Harvard Herbaria example - two collections in one. SB: yes, we need to keep this in mind - and how to deal with this, also collections that are merged (moved) into other collections.
* **SB to all** - add use cases about different collection types - data associated with a population in a given area. KW has one.

### Agenda item 3

* QG: Ideas to use Wikibase to make models, and test them. Can be used for CDs and other models of specimens, collections, biodiversity. Investigating what it involved in setting up and running an instance.

### Agenda item 4

* MW suggested [draw.io](https://www.draw.io/) as a tool for the group to use for creating and sharing diagrams - well featured, free and integrates with Google Drive. Several other have use it, and the response to the suggestion was positive.

## Next actions

* Use Case breakdown and analysis
* Data Model Meeting setup

---

# CD TG Data Model Group Remote Meeting (Round 2) 24/04/2019 20:00 UTC

## Present

Stan Blum, Debbie Paul, Mike Trizna, Mareike Petersen, Kevin Love, Ramona Walls, ...

## Agenda

1. Use case review strategies
2. Update on data modelling task
3. AOB

## Meeting notes

### Agenda item 2

* SB (DP) Data Model has a google docs folder. in the GitHub REPO here [https://github.com/tdwg/cd/tree/master/documents/draft/data_model](https://github.com/tdwg/cd/tree/master/documents/draft/data_model)
* SB: tricky use case (problem) for this model, counts of items at different levels, different scopes (Arctic Collection, Whole Collection).... longer discussion here about data challenge that Stan sees with this model.
* RW: Missing Dimension: describes some “total” sum of items in this collection.
* MT: “primary dimension” could be designated.
* SB: Field Notes Project - collectors and geography.
* Join The Dots (NHM) and using Microsoft BI software to visualize (see Data Model folder in CD Repo for more about this.

### Agenda item 3

* MT: notes that Rebecca Snyder - EMu users-group meeting update
* DP: SPNHC update
* Note that [draw.io](https://www.draw.io/) has been suggested for a shared diagramming tool
* Wikibase (see previous meeting notes)
* Agenda for next meeting: include discussion around Concept of Operations (from [https://drive.google.com/open?id=1i7BI_HI27iDw4eIlUPP7jEZIv3XPQU8xb53zTNfiwsM](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1i7BI_HI27iDw4eIlUPP7jEZIv3XPQU8xb53zTNfiwsM))